===============================================================
I. The Object of the Game
===============================================================

You control the Vaus II, and you must keep your energy ball(s) in play, 
destroying bricks and opening a path onward until you face the evil DOH.

===============================================================
II. Controls
===============================================================

Left/Right     - move Vaus II left or right
A + Left/Right - move Vaus II faster
B + Left/Right - move Vaus II slower
A              - shoot a laser (with the Laser capsule) or release the ball (at 
                 the beginning of a level or with the Catch capsule)

===============================================================
III. Main Menu
===============================================================

1P   - play a one player game
2P   - play a two player game (same as 1P, players alternate turns)
Vs   - two players (or one player and the computer) face off in a Pong style 
       matchup with obstacles separating the two combatants
Edit - create your own levels

===============================================================
IV. Scoring
===============================================================

Points are scored whenever a block is broken, when you grab a power-up capsule, 
and when you destroy an enemy. An extra life is granted at 20,000 points and 
every 50,000 points thereafter. The different types of blocks are:

Colored blocks - All of these blocks must be eliminated to complete a level. 
One hit from the ball will destroy them. Some of these blocks contain power-up 
capsules, when the ball hits it the first time, a capsule will be shown and 
then change to a different capsule every few seconds. A second hit from the 
ball releases the capsule, letting it fall towards the Vaus II. If you catch 
the capsule with the Vaus II, you gain the capsule's powers. Even if you don't 
hit the capsule a second time, eventually it will choose a random capsule and 
fall on its own. The capsule's powers last until you die, you complete the 
level, or you grab another capsule.

Silver blocks - All of these blocks must be eliminated to complete a level. As 
the game progresses, the number of hits needed to destroy these blocks 
increases, beginning with 2 in the early levels and ending with 6 in the late 
levels. These blocks never contain powerups.

Gold blocks - These blocks are not required to be destroyed to complete a 
level. They can only be destroyed with a ball powered by a Megaball capsule.

Regenerating blocks - These blocks are not required to be destroyed to complete 
a level. They take the same amount of hits needed as Silver blocks do, but when 
they are destroyed, they regenerate after a few seconds.

Moving blocks - Some blocks move back and forth across the level. Some gold 
blocks will begin moving back and forth after being hit by the ball.

===============================================================
V. Power-ups
===============================================================

Here is a list of all the power-up capsules you can collect: 

[Name (Letter-Color) - Added abilities]

Break (B-pink) - Opens the exits to the next level, even if breakable blocks 
remain on the level.

Catch (C-dark green) - The ball sticks to the Vaus II, allowing you to move 
around and shoot it wherever you want. Don't take too long, though, as the ball 
will shoot itself after a few seconds.

Disrupt (D-light blue) - The ball splits into eight balls.

Extend (E-dark blue) - The Vaus II increases in size.

Incandescence (I-dark green) - The Vaus II leaves a trail behind itself 
whenever it moves. This trail keeps the ball in play just like the Vaus II 
itself does.

Laser (L-red) - Activates the Vaus II's laser, allowing it to shoot and destroy 
blocks and enemies.

Megaball (M-purple) - The ball changes color and can go through all blocks, 
even gold ones, destroying them instantly. Be careful, because on some levels, 
the ball color can make it very difficult to see on some levels' backgrounds.

New (N-white) - The ball splits into three balls. If a ball is lost, one of the 
remaining two splits again, thus keeping three balls in play at all times.

Player (P-gray) - The player gains an extra life.

Reduce (R-black) - The Vaus II shrinks in size, however, all points earned are 
doubled while in a reduced state.

Speed Down (S-peach) - The ball slows down.

Twin (T-dark blue) - The Vaus II duplicates itself, thus giving you two Vaus 
II's to keep the ball in play. Be careful, as there is a gap between the two 
Vaus II's and the ball can fit in between them, which can cause much 
frustration.

===============================================================
VI. Levels
===============================================================

There are 32 brick-breaking levels and 3 boss fights, for a total of 35 levels. 
Most of the levels have a "Left" and "Right" version, depending on which exit 
you take when you complete the previous level. After breaking the last block of 
a level or when you grab a "Break" capsule, an exit appears on your left and 
your right. Take the left exit to go the "Left" version of the next level, take 
the right exit to go the "Right version".

Here are descriptions for every level, with difficulty ratings:

Level 0 - Easy

The game opens with a battle against...DOH? That's strange. He's a piece of 
cake though. Avoid his projectiles and keep hitting him with the ball until he 
is destroyed. Seven hits should do the trick.

Level 1 - Easy

This level is the same no matter which exit you took on Level 0. This level 
introduces the regenerating bricks, so be aware of them.

Level 2L - Easy

Gold blocks make their first appearance here, and they move once they are hit. 
Try to get the ball up through the hole in the silver blocks and keep the ball 
up there.

Level 2R - Easy

Gold blocks divide the level in half, with a multitude of colored blocks to hit 
on both sides.  No problem.

Level 3L - Easy

More moving gold blocks here, but the low number of breakable blocks makes this 
a quick level.

Level 3R - Average

It can be tough to get the between the gold blocks and hit the breakable 
blocks, especially when the ball starts speeding up. If you can grab a capsule, 
it's not too bad.

Level 4L - Average

The interconnected gold and silver blocks present a challenge, especially with 
the blocks nestled between the gold blocks.

Level 4R - Easy

Hmmm...it looks like a cat. The gold blocks are out of the way in this level, 
and there aren't many breakable blocks to hit.

Level 5L - Easy

The gold blocks outline the shape of a bug of some kind, so keep the ball in 
the middle where the breakable blocks are and you'll be fine.

Level 5R - Hard

There are only eight breakable blocks, but they are hard to hit amongst the 
gold blocks, and if you miss and send the ball up to the top, the ball speeds 
up very quickly, making it very hard to control.

Level 6L - Easy

It looks like a Vaus! No gold blocks here, so destroy everything.

Level 6R - Average

If you can get rid of the blocks between the gold blocks early, the rest is 
easy.

Level 7L - Easy

The gold blocks are spread out, so just keep sending the ball up the sides and 
it should stay up there.

Level 7R - Hard

The hard part is sending the ball into the maze of gold blocks. If it stays 
there and doesn't come back out, the level is quite easy. Of course, the ball 
always seems to miss one block and fly out when you least expect it, so be 
ready for it.

Level 8L - Average

First off, destroy the regenerating block on the right and quickly send the 
ball up into the top part of the level. As long as the block regenerates 
quickly enough that the ball is trapped up there, it should buy enough time for 
you to grab a capsule and quickly finish off this level.

Level 8R - Hard

The gold blocks make their presence felt again. Try and fit the ball between 
the gold blocks and pray the ball doesn't come back out for a long time.

Level 9L - Average

Tennis anyone? Lots of silver blocks here, so be prepared for a lengthy battle. 
Also, the gold blocks are close to the bottom, so keep the ball away from them.

Level 9R - Average

Time for a ride in a balloon! Stay away from the middle here, as the gold 
blocks block you there. Keep sending the ball up the sides.

Level 10L - Hard

The level is almost entirely composed of gold and silver blocks, so don't 
expect many capsules to help you here. The moving gold blocks also pose a 
problem, as they can cause some unexpected bounces.

Level 10R - Hard

Not to be outdone, this level has even fewer colored blocks than 10L, as it's 
pretty much just a mass of silver blocks. There are passages on both sides, so 
keeping sending the ball up and hope it causes a lot of damage before it comes 
back down.

Level 11L - Average

Gold blocks border the breakables on the top and bottom, so send the ball up 
the sides for an easier time.

Level 11R - Average

This level is very similar to Level 16 of the original Arkanoid. You can either 
break the blocks on the sides and send the ball up to the top, or break through 
the silver blocks in the middle to get to the top blocks.

Level 12L - Average

This heart-shaped level has regenerating blocks at the top which can keep the 
enemies from the top at bay, so focus your attention on the middle and the 
breakable blocks there.

Level 12R - Average

Lots of silver blocks here, but they are not too close to you, allowing a lot 
of room for maneuvering.

Level 13L - Hard

There are five long lines of blocks, alternating between colored blocks and 
regenerating blocks. If you can send the ball up at a sharp angle, it will 
probably stay up there for a while. If you can grab a ball-splitting capsule 
while it's up there, the level could end very quickly, although it can be very 
difficult to get to one pesky block amid all of the annoying regenerating 
blocks.

Level 13R - Hard

This is another one of those "send the ball up the middle and hope it never 
comes out" levels. The regenerating blocks should keep the ball up there if 
you're fortunate, but if the ball comes back down at a high speed, you can kiss 
that ball goodbye.

Level 14L - Average

This level isn't too bad, especially if you can grab a laser capsule, as all 
the blocks are vulnerable to being shot.

Level 14R - Average

Not too many breakables here, and the blocks start far away, so it's a nice 
breather.

Level 15L - Easy

It's a piece of cake! Oh, and the level is easy, too. ^_^

Level 15R - Very Hard

There aren't many breakable blocks here, of course getting to them is another 
story. The gold blocks in the middle form an impenetrable wall that spell out 
the word "DOH" (which, incidentally, is what I say whenever I play this level 
instead of 15L.

*insert a Homer Simpson "D'oh!" here*

Anyway, to get the ball to the top, there are movable gold blocks that open up 
a passage to the breakable blocks. Of course, actually getting that to work is 
quite difficult. An alternative is to try and shoot the ball in-between the 
gold blocks at the bottom left corner of the "O", since if you hit it just 
right, the ball can pass right between two blocks matched corner to corner. Of 
course, once you get the ball up top, it's virtually impossible to lose, unless 
you are very unlucky.

Level 16L - Hard

The enemies are contained in the columns of gold blocks on the left and right, 
so shoot the silver blocks at the bottom last. The mass of colored blocks in 
the middle can be a problem, especially if you accidentally release the enemies 
into the level, since they will be very close to you.

Level 16R - Average

Lots of regenerating blocks again, but not too bad. Just keep shooting the ball 
up the pathways in the middle and the sides.

Level 17 - Hard

The second boss appears to be a brain of some kind. It will emit enemies 
towards you at a rapid pace, so try to hit them as soon as possible so they 
don't get close. Keep hitting the brain will the ball, and eventually it will 
disappear, allowing some kind of alien to escape. Twenty hits or so should do 
it.

Level 18 - Hard

This level is the same no matter which exit you take from Level 17. The three 
rows of regenerating blocks will give you headaches, but once you get the ball 
past them, the rest should be easy.

Level 19L - Easy

A long row of gold blocks with one row of colored blocks on each side and 
that's it. Easy stuff.

Level 19R - Easy

No special blocks here, just colored blocks. No problem.

Level 20L - Average

Once you pass the outer rim of silver blocks, the rest is easy.

Level 20R - Average

Lots of silver blocks here, including moving silver blocks. Shoot the ball up 
the passages to the top and grab a decent capsule if you can.

Level 21L - Hard

The breakable blocks are all inside a square of gold blocks, with regenerating 
blocks servings as entrances. Destroy a regenerating block and shoot the ball 
inside, hoping the block regenerates in time to keep the ball inside.

Level 21R - Hard

Try to send the ball at an angle up the sides to make it easier for the ball to 
get inside the large square of gold blocks. Be careful since the gold blocks 
are quite close to the bottom of the level.

Level 22L - Hard

This is only hard due to large number of breakable blocks in the level. Destroy 
one of the silver blocks and shoot the ball up to the top, and hope for the 
best.

Level 22R - Average

Shoot the ball up the side and hope it goes between the gold blocks and breaks 
through the regenerating blocks. Hope the ball doesn't come back, as always.

Level 23L - Average

This level is somewhat reminiscent of Level 3 of the original Arkanoid. Break 
through the first set of silver blocks and try to angle the ball between the 
gold blocks and colored blocks. Repeat as necessary.

Level 23R - Easy

Not too much to threaten you here, so just keep the ball going.

Level 24L - Easy

The blocks are frowning at you, but they won't threaten you too much.

Level 24R - Average

Keep sending the ball up the side until it breaks through one of the holes in 
the gold block wall, then hope it stays in there long enough to hit the small 
number of colored blocks in the middle of the regenerating blocks.

Level 25L - Hard

No power-up capsules here, as all the blocks are silver or regenerating. It's 
similar to Level 11 of the original Arkanoid. Just keep shooting the ball into 
the middle when you break through the regenerating blocks.

Level 25R - Average

Lots of colored blocks here, the toughest block to hit is the one in the middle 
surrounded by regenerating blocks.

Level 26L - Hard

Destroy the regenerating block and quickly shoot the ball into the little hole 
twice. This should get you a Laser capsule. If you're quick enough, you can 
shoot the ball in a third time before the block regenerates and you should be 
set. If not, use the laser to shoot the block again until you can get the ball 
past the gold block wall. Once the ball is past it with the regenerating block 
in place, you're set.

Level 26R - Easy

There are only colored blocks here, but be aware, there are no power-up 
capsules to be had, so you'll have to finish the level the old-fashioned way.

Level 27L - Average

Need a beer? I know I do. Keep shooting the ball into the mug to hit all the 
colored blocks, and then finish off the silver blocks on the handle and the 
bottom.

Level 27R - Average

There aren't many blocks to hit here, but they are well guarded by the gold 
blocks.

Level 28L - Hard

Each side has two lines of regenerating blocks to pass before you can get the 
ball up top, and they are very close to the bottom of the level, so be prepared 
for a tough battle.

Level 28R - Hard

The only way up is on the left side of the massive gold block wall, hope the 
ball goes in enough to take out the breakable blocks inside.

Level 29L - Easy

Mmmm...strawberry. Or is that an apple? Not sure. Just shoot the red fruity 
section and the green leafy section at the top, ignoring the golden stem.

Level 29R - Easy

It looks like a space invader of some kind. Just shoot the colored blocks and 
be done with it.

Level 30L - Average

The gold blocks form a snake pattern, so as long as you keep the ball inside 
the snake, you'll be fine.

Level 30R - Average

At least the gold wall at the top will keep the enemies away. Just be careful 
since the level is smaller than normal due to the gold wall, so the ball speeds 
up quicker.

Level 31L - Average

I wouldn't suggest going at this formation from the bottom since the ball will 
just speed up too quickly. Shoot the ball up either side and let the ball take 
out the blocks from the top.

Level 31R - Hard

The colored blocks are well hidden by the gold blocks here. Shoot the ball at 
an angle up either side and hope the ball goes in between a few times.

Level 32L - Hard

This level reminds me of Level 30 of Arkanoid, with the checkerboard pattern of 
the blocks. Except, in this case, there are regenerating blocks everywhere, 
which makes for a nightmare if you're trying to get to a block at the top.

Level 32R - Average

The colored blocks are all along the outside of the gold blocks, so just try to 
keep the ball from going into the middle, where there are no blocks and just 
causes the ball to speed up more.

Level 33L - Hard

There aren't many blocks to hit here, but the gold blocks divide the level into 
upper and lower tiers, and the ball has a tendency to gravitate to the upper 
level even after getting all the blocks up there.

Level 33R - Average

Keep shooting the ball up the sides, avoiding the golden block wall at the 
bottom.

Level 34 - Hard

Either exit from 33L or 33R leads to here, the final boss, DOH himself. The 
first form is similar to the form you fought in Level 0, only this time he 
takes a lot more punishment before disappearing. When he does, he is replaced 
by his true form (the form that escaped the brain in Level 17). Try not to 
shoot the arms, as they break off when hit and the pieces are deadly to your 
Vaus II, plus they regenerate after the pieces disappear. Eventually, the 
creature succumbs to your onslaught, and you have conquered DOH yet again!

===============================================================
VII. Strategies
===============================================================

- Don't use a standard controller to play the game. I highly recommend using an 
Arkanoid-type controller (with a spinning dial as opposed to a D-pad) or a 
mouse (for play on a computer). Even using the A button to speed up the Vaus II 
usually isn't enough to keep up with the speed of the ball.

- Know your power-up capsules! Nothing hurts more than to grab a totally 
useless capsule and negating the effect of a more useful ability. Also, if you 
grab a New power-up capsule, try to keep its effect in play as long as 
possible. The only way you can lose with this capsule is to lose all three 
balls simultaneously, which will very rarely ever happen.

- Practice controlling the angle of the ball bouncing off the Vaus II. If you 
hit the ball on the edge of the Vaus II, the angle of the ball becomes 
narrower; if you hit the ball on the center of the Vaus II, the angle becomes 
steeper. Use this to hit the ball where you want it to go.

- After the ball hits a certain number of targets (walls, blocks, enemies, 
etc.) the angle of the ball changes slightly. Watch out for this. Also be aware 
that the ball can take an extremely sharp angle change when hitting an enemy, 
especially when the enemies fly down near to your Vaus II.
