1. Overview
2. Control
3. Level 1
4. Level 2
5. Level 3
6. Level 4
7. Secrets
8. Credits
9. Legals

===========
1. Overview
===========

Welcome to another stonedwal FAQ.  The subject of today's FAQ is the much
reverred Nintendo classic, Donkey Kong.  The game features a rather 
disgruntled ape, who likes pinching people's girlfriends.  As Mario, as small
time carpenter from New York, you must defeat Donkey Kong, and rescue your
beloved Pauline.

==========
2. Control
==========

Left: Moves Mario to the left

Right: Moves Mario to the right

Up: Allows Mario to climb a ladder

Down: Causes Mario to descend a ladder

Button 1: Jump

==========
3. Level 1
==========

=-=-=-
Part A
=-=-=-

After the introduction (How high can you get?), the game will display the
first level, which in this case appears to be a construction yard.  At the top
of the level is your arch enemy, Donkey Kong, as well as your dearly beloved 
Pauline.  Between you and Pauline lies a large concoction of girders and 
ladders.  To make matters worse, Donkey Kong has bounced up and down on the
girders, causing them to bend downwards, so he can throw barrels down the
girders to prevent you from reaching him.

When you gain control of Mario, move immediately to your right, as Donkey Kong
will drop a barrel right away.  This barrel will combine with the flaming drum
at the bottom of the level to produce a fiery enemy.  This enemy will pursue
you throughout the level, so you must act fast.  Continue to move right, past
the broken ladder, and proceed to climb the ladder at the end of the platform.

On the second platform, you have three options at your disposal for methods of
advancing to the next platform.  First of all, we can grab the hammer.  The
hammer is useful for those chasing a big high score, as you get 300 points for
each barrel you smash, and it gives you an opportunity to dispose of the flame
guy.  The second option is to take the middle ladder, being weary that a
barrel may take that path.  Finally, you can take the ladder at the end.

By now, Donkey Kong's first barrel should be about to hit you.  Jump over the
barrel for 100 points.  Once you reach the third platform, you have two 
options.  Run to the right, past the broken ladder, as it is completely 
useless, and jump over any barrels in the way.  The first ladder is longer 
than the other, but you reach it much more quickly.

On the fourth platform, run left, past the broken ladder, and take either of
the two unbroken ladders to the second last platform.

On the second last platform, there is a hammer.  Take it, and clear a path
through the barrels, and take the ladder at the end of the path to the top
platform.

On the top platform, jump any barrels, and climb the ladder to Pauline's
platform.  Now watch in dispair as your flea ridden foe steals Pauline and
takes her away again.

=-=-=-
Part B
=-=-=-

People who grew up on the NES version are probably shocked at the differences
already, so this should be another suprise to add to the list.  This level
is the final NES level.

My strategy here is a little unorthodox, but it never fails.  You start at the
bottom level of the structure.  Donkey Kong and Pauline are at the top.  The
trick is to remove each of the yellow blocks from the structure, so that
Donkey Kong will fall off the structure, so you can rescue Pauline.

As was mentioned before, you start at the bottom.  Climb the ladder to the 
second platform and steal the brick, being weary of the flame dude.  Jump over
the gap you just created, and climb the ladder to the third platform.  Keep
doing this until all the bricks on the right hand side are gone.

By the time these bricks are gone, there will be 3 or 4 flame guys around, so
must be careful.  The way to go about this is to remove the bricks in a manner
which traps the flame guys in the middle platform, so they cannot threaten you
(easily).  Once all the bricks are gone, Donkey Kong will be defeated, and you
will have Pauline to yourself, or so you think.

==========
4. Level 2
==========

Unlike the NES version, stages are revealed gradually in the Arcade version.

Level 2 is similar to Level 1, but adds an extra level to the mix.

=-=-=-
Part A
=-=-=-

This is practically the same as Part A of Level 1, except much harder.
Barrels move faster, and are more prone to acting unpredicatbly.  Donkey Kong
also throws the barrels in many different directions.  The level starts off in
the same manner, except DK diagonally throws a flame barrel to the bottom
right corner, so hold right as soon as you start the stage.  After this point
things are relatively unpredictable, so stick to the strategy from last time
and perservere.

=-=-=-
Part B
=-=-=-

This is the most frustrating level in the game, in my opinion.  It involves a
series of elevators and a bunch of remote platforms, some connected by
ladders.  To make matters worse, there are two flame guys, no mallets, and a
ridiculous stream of bouncing springs.

You start off on a platform in the middle of the screen on the far left.
At the top of the ladder is an umbrella, which gives you a small points bonus.
Next to this structure is an elevator going upwards, and next to that is a 
small structure with two platforms, two ladders and a flame going up and down
them.  Time your jump onto the elevator so you can jump onto the ladder
platforms without any risk of contact with the flame.

On the other side of the ladder platform is another lift, this time going
downward.  Jump onto the lift, and take it down to a point where you can jump
onto the next series of platforms.  These are somewhat like steps, so jump
up them, avoiding the springs that are raining down, and climb up the ladder.
You will notice that a flame is looming overhead, so do your best to avoid
contact with this and the constant stream of springs, and work your way up the
step-like platforms until you reach Donkey Kong's platform.

Because the springs move so fast, you must be very careful when timing your
run and climb up the ladder, as springs are likely to hit your bum if you are
too slow.  Once you climb up the ladder, Donkey Kong snatches Pauline, and
we go to the next part.

=-=-=-
Part C
=-=-=-

This is exactly the same as Part B of Level 1, except that the flames move
faster and have greater numbers.

==========
5. Level 3
==========

=-=-=-
Part A
=-=-=-

The same once again, but even faster.

=-=-=-
Part B
=-=-=-

The factory level which is missing from the NES conversion!

You'll start on the bottom level.  Avoid being hit by the coal on teh conveyor
belt, and make it to the "safe" platform.  Note that there are a shitload of
flamies here, so avoid them, or jump to the next platform and gram the hammer,
and put them out of their misery.

You need to make it across to the right hand side of the screen, so you can 
reach that conveyor.  Once the flamies are taken care of, climb the ladder 
onto the conveyor, being wary of the coal, and climb the moving ladder.

Make sure you don't climb the ladder when Donkey Kong is above you.  Upon
reaching the platform, Donkey Kong will snatch Pauline again.

=-=-=-
Part C
=-=-=-

Rehash of Part B of Level 2, with faster springs.

=-=-=-
Part D
=-=-=-

Rehash of Part B of Level 1, with faster flames.

==========
6. Level 4
==========

From here on in, there is just a replay of the previous levels, getting
progressively faster.  No new levels are introduced, so I will not be covering
them.  The only difference is that the "How high can you get" gets larger.