In 2004 the GameFAQs FAQ Writing Community started a Master System Completion 
Project for which I wrote fifteen different FAQs before I moved on to other
projects. My urge to cover more SMS FAQs however has never wavered and that is 
why I'm back today in the newest SEGA Master System Completion Project which is
hosted on the FAQ Contributors - General Board. I'm starting to pick up random
games to bring the project to its completion and which game is better to get
random than Impossible Mission, the ultimate random game. No playthrough will
ever be the same. It also makes writing a Walkthrough completely useless, so
this FAQ will only learn you how to complete the game.

=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=
2- Gameplay                                                              [A200]
=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=-=

===============================================================================
     2.1- Story                                                          [A201]
===============================================================================

Your mission, Agent 4125, is to foil a horrible plot. From an underground
laboratory, Elvin, the scientist, is holding the world hostage under the threat
of nuclear annihilation. You must penetrate his stronghold, avoid his human-
seeking robots and find the pieces of the security code. Somersault over the 
robots or use a precious snooze code to deactivate them long enough to search 
each room. Use the Agency's computer to unscramble the passwords from the code 
pieces, or try to solve them yourself. You've got to reach Elvin's control 
center, but you'd better beware... this mission is stamped IMPOSSIBLE!

===============================================================================
     2.2- Description                                                    [A202]
===============================================================================

In Impossible Mission you play Agent 4125, an acrobatic secret agent who needs
to stop the very dangerous criminal-scientist-professor Dr. Elvin Atombender as
he is caught tampering with the national security systems. Now you need to mess
with his computer systems in the hope of reaching him, but his secret base is
very big and dangerous. You will need to search every room to find all puzzle
pieces and the door to Dr. Elvin Atombender. Luckily, once you have found the 
door and the password, you won't have any problems defeating him. In this game
you only need to open his door to win. Too bad it won't be very easy, this game
really deserves its name. But hey, it is still more easy than the sequel.

Each level gives you six hours of game time to collect all puzzle pieces. Every
second the clock ticks down and you come closer to the Game Over screen, which
you can only reach by running out of time. For instance, you don't lose because
you died too much, but you will lose ten minutes each time you die. This means
it is best to skip certain rooms if it seems to difficult. You need to go out
and find 'power-ups' which come in two variations and need to be used using one
of the computers in the room. You have Lift Reset which resets the position of
the lifts in a room, and the Snooze power-up which turns off the enemies in a
room for limited time. So don't take risks and remember which room you skipped.

In each room you need to find a puzzle piece, which is hidden inside a random
item inside the room. You need to press the 2 button before each item to search
it, without getting hit by the enemies guarding these items. If an enemy becomes
a danger, you can stop searching it, avoid the enemy and try searching it again.
You can split up your search in multiple parts, so you don't need to restart if
you need to flee for an enemy. It can help to search items that are guarded by a
very active enemy, without wasting a snooze. Once you have searched it, it will
disappear forever so you won't accidentally search it multiple times.

Of course there will be other problems then enemies in each room and they come
mostly from the architecture of each room - which is generated random - because
you will need to puzzle and jump yourself a way to the items. You can walk over
small gaps, but you will need to jump a lot to avoid enemies and get to other
platforms. Another way to reach new platforms is using the elevators who can go
up and down when there is a free space above/underneath them depending on the
direction. You will often need to manipulate multiple elevators to reach every
place inside a level; but remember: you can jump very far, so don't be afraid
to jump if you can't get somewhere by elevator.

At the end of the game you need to make a puzzle out of the different puzzle
pieces you find, but you need to overlap the pieces with each other and you
need to adapt their rotation and color. This means you will need to reset the
puzzle regularly because you can't get anything to fit together. If everything
fits in correctly, you'll get to see a couple of black holes and it disappears,
and you will get an extra character in the password. That also means you need
to form more than one puzzle, you need to make nine of them so you will lose a
bit of time.

===============================================================================
     2.3- Rooms                                                          [A203]
===============================================================================

During the game you will encounter three types of rooms, with the percentage of
each number of rooms being controlled by the randomness. Not every walkthrough
will even have the same amount of rooms, but the types remain the same. You'll
use the regular rooms to get from one tower to another, because each building
contains about six towers. Getting back to a room where you had difficulty the
first time to search it again, won't be easy. It is best to keep a quick map of
your tower so you don't lose your way. Too bad you will need to make new maps
each time you restart the game.
 _____________________________________________________________________________
/                  |                                                          \
| Tower & Elevator | The towers aren't actual rooms, but form the connections |
\__________________/ between the different rooms. In these area's you get an  |
                   \ overview of the layout of the building, and get access   |
                   | to the menu's. No enemies appear here, but the clock is  |
                   | still ticking so don't lose too much time here.          |
                   \__________________________________________________________/
 _____________________________________________________________________________
/                  |                                                          \
| Musical Room     | The musical rooms is the rarest kinds of rooms, which is |
\__________________/ quite normal, because it is also the most 'broken' kind  |
                   \ of room. There are no enemies and you can easily get new |
                   | power-ups by solving the musical puzzle. This is just a  |
                   | simple puzzle where you need to repeat a couple of keys. |
                   \__________________________________________________________/
 _____________________________________________________________________________
/                  |                                                          \
| Regular Room     | In the regular rooms you will be losing most of your time|
\__________________/ because here you need to search for the puzzle pieces and|
                   \ avoid getting killed by the enemies. Most rooms contain  |
                   | one puzzle piece and zero or more power-ups. Some regular|
                   | rooms will contain two entrances, connecting two towers. |
                   \__________________________________________________________/

===============================================================================
     2.4- Enemies                                                        [A204]
===============================================================================

The entire game is randomized; so nobody can predict which type of enemies will
appear in the next room, but luckily you only have a select amount of different
enemies. The problem is, you won't be recognizing the different type of enemies
based on their looks. The enemies come in two looks, a ball and a robot. Robots
come in various colors and with different AI possibilities, but there is no
relationship between AI and colors. Even in the same level robots with the same
color can have different AI settings. For instance, you have little robots that
can follow you, ones that follow set patterns, ones that stay still, ones that
will regularly send out electricity and ones that don't. 

On entering the level it is important to find out how the robots will move. In
any room, robots will move the same way which can make certain rooms very easy
and others very hard. Knowing the kind of enemy can make a big difference and
will warn you if you should come back later when you have a 'Snooze' password 
or try your chances at 'beating' the robots. This beating mainly involves
avoiding them because you can't kill the robots or even move them. Only the
ball can be beaten by trapping it between two elevators and going up/down with
them. Another option is to knock it down an hole using the elevators, which
makes it appear at the top of the screen.
 _____________________________________________________________________________
/                  |                                                          \
| Electrified Ball | This enemy was inspired by Rover, a security guard from  | 
\__________________/ "The Prisoner" and conveniently it works much like Rover |
                   \ meaning it will fly around in a set pattern around the   |
                   | room so learn this pattern. The Electrified Ball is very |
                   | rare and will only pop up every couple of rooms because  |
                   | it is a lot more dangerous than the robots as you need   |
                   | to learn the pattern and it remains electrified when you |
                   | snooze it. It only stops moving, but remains a danger.   |
                   \__________________________________________________________/
 _____________________________________________________________________________
/                  |                                                          \
| Dalek R2D2 Robot | Often compared to R2D2 from Star Wars and the Dalek from |
\__________________/ Doctor Who, the robots are the most common enemies in    |
                   \ this game. The robots can't be killed and their body is  |
                   | electrified, which means you can't touch them. They will |
                   | remain in motion most of the time, and depending on the  |
                   | AI setting, they can follow you or take a set pattern.   |
                   | Some of them will emit electric beams that kill you, so  |
                   | you need to keep greater distance to these robots.       |
                   \__________________________________________________________/