Goro and his Meowkies have been up to their old tricks, robbing people
   blind, taking anything of value, and stashing the goods in their 
   Mansions.  Mappy, the mouse policeman, has had enough of waiting around
   with nothing getting done about these criminal cats, so he has set out on
   a vigilante mission, entering into the various Mansions, seeking to
   recover the stolen merchandise himself,  However, the Mewokies and Goro
   are onto his scheme, and once they know which Mansion he is in, they will
   try to call in their hired hitman Gosenzo to assist them while they 
   attempt to get the intrepid copper themselves.  Bounce wisely, open doors
   shrewdly, and make use of the traps available, and Mappy will be able to 
   recover lots of loot in his one man anti-crime spree!

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------Controls------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

2) This section will list all of the controls you will need to raid the
   thief dens of the infamous Goro and his Meowkies!


D-Pad   : LEFT and RIGHT will move Mappy in the corresponding direction
          pressed. UP and DOWN and have no apparent use.

SELECT  : No apparent use.

START   : Pauses/unpauses the game.

B Button: Open/closes doors.

A Button: Open/closes doors.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------Enemies------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

3) This section will examine the enemies in the game, looking at how they
   behave and how they can kill Mappy.


                               o----------o
                               | Meowkies |
                               o----------o

These small kitties are the main body of Goro's gangs.  They will run around
and attempt to use their sheer amount of numbers to trap and destroy Mappy,
pursuing in a reasonably intelligent manner.  They are unable to get Mappy 
when they both are bouncing/falling in the trampoline corridors of the 
Mansions, so that is a temporary safe place for the police mouse to hide out
in.

                                 o------o
                                 | Goro |
                                 o------o

The fat cat in charge of the Meowky thief gangs, he is actually quite a bit
stupider than his cronies. In fact, Goro will often get distracted by the
treasure he and his gang have stolen, and he will wander off to look at and
hide behind these objects instead of pursuing Mappy. Like his Meowkies, Goro
is not able to get Mappy when he both are bouncing/falling in the trampoline
corridors of the Mansions, so the police mouse can hide here from him...
temporarily.


                               o---------o
                               | Gosenzo |
                               o---------o

After the hurry up warning has come into effect, Gosenzo will be summoned 
into the Mansion when the next hurry up alarm is heard. He will pursue Mappy
around the Mansion like the Meowkies, but unlike the Meowkies and Goro, he 
is able to kill the police mouse even when Mappy is bouncing/falling in the 
trampoline corridors of the Mansions!  Finish the treasure collection off 
quickly to avoid seeing this powerhouse in play.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------Obstacles-----------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

4) This section will examine the various obstacles in the game, looking at
   how Mappy will have to interact with them.


                             o-------------o
                             | Trampolines |
                             o-------------o

Trampolines are the bouncy floors spread through out the Mansions. While 
bouncing on them, Mappy is not vulnerable to Mewokies or Goro, and they are 
the only way for Mappy to reach the highest ledges.  They start out coloured
green, and with each successive bounce, they will wear, going through the
following coloured progression:

green --> blue --> white --> red

If a red trampoline is bounced upon, the trampoline will break, sending 
Mappy down to his doom (unless he lands on another trampoline, which is
perfectly safe).  When in the Mansions, stepping onto a platform will cause
the trampoline to go back to being green. However, when in the bonus rounds,
the wear on the trampolines can not be reset, so bounce carefully to avoid
falling through the red coloured trampolines.


                                o-------o
                                | Doors |
                                o-------o

Doors are randomly distributed through out the Mansions, blocking the 
hallways. The doors can be opened/closed at quite a distance, and the side
that has the handle on it will swing open to allow mouse or cat through.
Note that the enemy are able to open regular doors (though not Microwave 
Doors... see the Traps section for details). If Mappy or a foe open a Door
when they are too close to the side with the knob, Mappy will be knocked
backwards, while the enemy will be knocked backwards AND be stunned for a
few moments (unless they land directly onto a trampoline, which will mean 
they can keep moving), allowing Mappy to pass by without being defeated.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
----------------------------------Traps-------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

5) This section will examine the various tricks that Mappy can use to 
   temporarily disable any of the klepto cats that populate the Mansions.
   Note that Gosenzo is invulnerable to these tricks and traps.


                           o----------------o
                           | Microwave Door |
                           o----------------o

These thick, brown doors will send a microwave across the screen in the
direction that the handle on the door points, and take note that only Mappy
has the power to open them.  Any Meowky or Goro caught up in the ensuing 
wave will be carried along with it, yielding Bonus Points (see the Scoring 
section for details).  Once a Microwave Door has had the power it contained 
unleashed, the Microwave Door shall become a regular Door, meaning that any
foe can open it as easily as Mappy can.


                                o------o
                                | Bell |
                                o------o

Located above the two extreme sides of the Mansion, Mappy must physically
touch the bell to drop the heavy item down on the heads of the thieving cats
below. This will cause the enemy to disappear for two seconds, followed by 
their returning at the exact same spot where they were struck.


                              o----------o
                              | Trapdoor |
                              o----------o

These flashing spots in the floor will become deadly to both Mappy and the
enemy after Mappy walks past, which removes the plate. It remains open for
three seconds, during which any enemy (or police mouse) that steps into the
hole shall fall down to the next level.  This will kill Mappy, and it will
cause the enemy to lay there for two seconds while they are stunned, 
followed by their getting to their feet and resuming their chase of Mappy.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
---------------------------------Scoring------------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

6) This section will examine the scoring found within the game.


                          o---------------------o
                          | Trampoline Bouncing |
                          o---------------------o

Each bounce on a Trampoline will yield 10 points, which sounds like a small
amount, but Mappy will bounce on a lot of Trampolines through out the game.
Just be careful to not break the Trampoline, as losing a life while farming
points.


                             o--------------o
                             | Stolen Items |
                             o--------------o

Each item type has a base value, with two of each item found in each 
Mansion.

Radio.....: 100
Television: 200
Computer..: 300
Painting..: 400
Safe......: 500

The game also awards a bonus for collecting the same item consecutively.
The formula for the scoring is as follows:

y = Item One value
z = Item Two value

y + (y x 2) = 
z + (z x 3) = 

The increase in the multiplier value will be by 1 for each set of Items 
collected, reaching a maximum bonus multiplier of 6 for the last pair of 
Items. By collecting the Stolen items from least to most valuable, each
level has the potential for Mappy to score 8500 in each Mansion.


                             o-----------------o
                             | Microwave Doors |
                             o-----------------o

Microwave Doors send out a microwave which will ensnare any Meowky or Goro
that gets in the way.  The points scored will depend on the number of 
Meowkies and Goros ensnared (both will count towards the cat total):

                            ___________ ________
                           | # of Cats | Points |
                           |___________|________|
                           |     1     |   200  |
                           |___________|________|
                           |     2     |   400  |
                           |___________|________|
                           |     3     |   800  |
                           |___________|________|
                           |     4     |  1200  |
                           |___________|________|
                           |     5     |  1600  |
                           |___________|________|
                           |     6     |  2000  |
                           |___________|________|
                           |     7     |  3000  |
                           |___________|________|
                           |     8     |  4000  |
                           |___________|________|
                           |     9     |  5000  |
                           |___________|________|
                           |    10     |  6000  |
                           |___________|________|

Goro will not only add to the Cat total for the points scored, but he will
also add a multiplier of 2 to the bonus score.

6 Meowkies + 1 Goro = 7 Cats (3000 points)
3000 points x Goro bonus (2) = 6000 points


                                o-------o
                                | Bells |
                                o-------o

Dropping a Bell on the head of a Cat will yield the following point totals.

Meowky:  300
Goro..: 1000

These point totals will just be added to your score, so getting multiple 
victims will not lead to multipliers.


                              o-----------o
                              | Trapdoors |
                              o-----------o

Removing the cover from the trapdoor will make it so Meowkies and Goro can
fall through the opening to score Mappy the following point totals.

Meowky:  300
Goro..: 1000

These point totals will just be added to your score, so getting multiple 
victims will not lead to multipliers.


                             o-------------o
                             | Bonus Round |
                             o-------------o

There are two collectibels in the bonus round, which yield the following 
point totals.

Red Balloon.:  200
Goro Balloon: 2000

The points are only awarded at the end of the round.  If all 15 Red Balloons
and the single Goro Balloon are collected, a bonus of 5000 points will be 
added to Mappy's score, making the Bonus Round worth a cool 10000 points!


                             o-------------o
                             | Extra Lives |
                             o-------------o

Extra lives are obtained by reaching certain milestones in total score.

                         ___________ ____________
                        | Milestone |   Result   |
                        |___________|____________|
                        |   20,000  | First 1-Up |
                        |___________|____________|
                        |   70,000  | Second 1-Up|
                        |___________|____________|
                        |  140,000  | Third 1-Up |
                        |___________|____________|
                        |  210,000  | Fourth 1-Up|
                        |___________|____________|

Every 70,000 point increment after the Second 1-Up will yield an additional
extra life for Mappy to try and retake as many Stolen Items as he possibly 
can from the thieving cats.

----------------------------------------------------------------------------
------------------------------Stage Set-Ups---------------------------------
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

7) This section will examine the basic stage layouts for the level groups
   and the Bonus Rounds.


                o------------------------------------------o
                | A Few Notes On the Mansions/Bonus Rounds |
                o------------------------------------------o

The following thinks all apply to each Mansion:

   * The positions of the Stolen Items for each Mansion Type will be 
     constant, including from stage to stage, so it is quite possible to 
     have a pre-planned route to follow to get the multiplier bonuses with
     greater ease.

   * The positions of the Doors/Microwave Doors are randomized from stage to
     stage, so the maps will not denote their presence.  However, they are 
     there, so they require some on your feet planning to utilize them 
     effectively.

   * Trapdoors are also randomized (like the Doors/Microwave Doors) for the
     3 stages of every 16 that they appear in.  Note their locations and 
     make plans on how to lead a group of Meowkies to them to utilize them
     effectively.

   * On the first Hurry Up, two mroe Meowkies will join the fray.

   * On the second Hurry Up, the Gosenzo will enter to hunt down Mappy 
     relentlessly.

   * On the wide open Trampoline lanes, sometimes a second trampoline can 
     be inserted between higher floor sections/walls.

   * Falling through a trampoline off the screen or onto a solid ledge is
     fatal, except on the Bonus Round.  Although the Bonus Round will end if
     this occurs, it will not cost Mappy a life reserve.
     


___________________
KEY                |
                   |
 B  - Balloon      |
 C  - Computer     |
 G  - Goro Balloon |
 L  - Bell Trap    |
 P  - Painting     |
 R  - Radio        |
 S  - Safe         |
 T  - Television   |
xxx - Trampoline   |
                   |
___________________|

                           o-----------------o
                           | Mansion Type #1 |
                           o-----------------o

             +---------------------  ----------------------+
             |      C                               R      |
             |   ----------   ------------   -----------   |
             |    S            P                           |
             |   ----------   ------------   -----------   |
             |                         T              S    |
             |   ----------   ------------   -----------   |
             |                  R                          |
             |   ----------   ------------   -----------   |
             |     P                    C     T            |
             +xxx----------xxx------------xxx-----------xxx+

Stages.: 1-2
Enemies: 3 Meowkies/1 Goro
Traps..: 4 Microwave Doors

A simply enough layout, be sure to start off by going onto the Trampoline to
the right of Mappy, as going left is a bad habit to get into (on the later 
levels, Mappy lacks the foot speed to get to the safety of the next 
Trampoline before a Meowky reaches him). Make use of the Microwave Doors to
get the Meowkies as they pool behind Mappy, and just be careful to not start
moving back and forth aimlessly on a ledge (allowing the Meowkies to get the
police mouse in a run down).  Finally, use the doors to stun the Meowkies,
making this easy challenge even easier.


                         o---------------------o
                         | Bonus Round Type #1 |
                         o---------------------o

                  +---|---+---+---+---+---+---+---|---+
                  | B   B | B | B | B |   | B |     B |
                  |  B    |       |     B |   | B     |
                  |       |       |           |       |
                  |   |   |   B   |           |   |   |
                  |   |   |       |           |   |   |
                  +xxx+   |   |       |   |   B   +xxx|
                  |   |   |   |       |   |       | B |
                  |       +xxx+   B   +xxx+           |
                  |           |       | B |           |
                  |           |   |       |   |       |
                  | G         |   |       |   |       |
                  +   |xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx|xxx+

Stage: 3

Follow these steps to achieve a perfect Bonus Round:

   i) Bounce up to hit the first Balloon.

  ii) Hold LEFT to break the Trampoline Mappy lands on, falling through to
      collect the Balloon below.

 iii) Hop to the left and bounce straight up to hit the third Balloon.

  iv) Upon bouncing back up, time moving left to grab the Balloon while
      transferring to the next Trampoline.

   v) Bounce up to hit the next Balloon.

  vi) Fall down and bounce up again, moving left onto the next Trampoline,
      bouncing straight up to get the next Balloon.

 vii) Hole LEFT to break the Trampoline Mappy lands on in a fast manner,
      falling down through the next Balloon.

viii) Immediately hop left onto the next Trampoline, bouncing high into the
      air to snag the next Balloon.

  ix) Fall and bounce up again, moving left to get the Balloon while
      transferring to the next Trampoline lane.

   x) Bounce straight up to pop the Balloon above.

  xi) Fall and bounce up again, moving left to get the Balloon while
      transferring to the next Trampoline lane.

 xii) Bounce straight up to get the next Balloon.

xiii) Hold LEFT to break the Trampoline, falling down to the next one to
      move left one more Trampoline lane, bouncing upwards to hit the 
      Balloon near the ceiling.

 xiv) Fall down and bounce up once more, moving left to pop the lower of the
      two Balloons.

  xv) Hold LEFT to quickly break the Trampoline below Mappy, sending him 
      falling down into the Goro Balloon.

 xvi) Watch with great satisfaction as Goro goes flying up to pop the 
      fifteenth and final Balloon of the Bonus Round for a perfect 10000
      points!


                           o-----------------o
                           | Mansion Type #2 |
                           o-----------------o

              +   -----------------   -----------------   +
              |      C                              R     |
              |   -----------------   -----------------   |
              |    S         P                            |
              |   -------   -------xxx-------   -------   |
              |                        T             S    |
              |   ------xxx--------   -------xxx-------   |
              |               R                           |
              |   -----------------   -----------------   |
              |     P                   C      T          |
              +xxx-----------------xxx-----------------xxx+

Stages.: 4-6
Enemies: 4 Meowkies/1 Goro
Traps..: 4 Mircowave Doors

A few things to shake it up here, with some Trampolines partway through some
of the elongated platforms (which are the ideal platforms to travel on to
minimize the chance of a Meowky trap), some extra trampolines partway up the
main Trampoline lanes, and the attic of the Mansion can be entered when 
bouncing in the main Trampoline lanes.  Although it is quite possible to 
grab all the Stolen items and obtain great bonus multipliers, the length of
the platforms will make it a difficult feat to pull off without endangering
Mappy.  Feel free to break the higher Trampolines that have a safety 
Trampoline underneath, as it will not cost Mappy a life.  Make use of the 
Microwave Doors to clear away the Meowkies as they group together, and clean
out the three stages to reach the Bonus Round.


                         o---------------------o
                         | Bonus Round Type #2 |
                         o---------------------o

                  +---|---+---+---+---+---+---+---|---+
                  | B   B | B | B |   | B |   |     B |
                  |       |       |       |   | B     |
                  |       |       |         B |       |
                  |   |   |       | B         |   |   |
                  |   |   |       |           |   |   |
                  +xxx+   |   |       |   |   B   +xxx|
                  |   | B |   |       |   |       | B |
                  |       +xxx+   B   +xxx+           |
                  |         B |       | B |           |
                  |           |   |       |   |       |
                  | G         |   |       |   |       |
                  +   |xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx|xxx+

Stage: 7

Follow these steps to achieve a perfect Bonus Round:

   i) Bounce up to hit the first Balloon.

  ii) Hold LEFT to break the Trampoline Mappy lands on, falling through to
      collect the Balloon below.

 iii) Hop to the left and bounce straight up to hit the third Balloon.

  iv) Upon bouncing back up, time moving left to grab the Balloon while
      transferring to the next Trampoline.

   v) Bounce up to hit the next Balloon.

  vi) Fall down and bounce up again, moving left onto the next Trampoline,
      bouncing straight up to get the next Balloon.

 vii) Hole LEFT to break the Trampoline Mappy lands on in a fast manner,
      falling down through the next Balloon.

viii) Immediately hop left onto the next Trampoline, bouncing high into the
      air to snag the next Balloon.

  ix) Fall and bounce up again, moving left to get the Balloon while
      transferring to the next Trampoline lane.

   x) Bounce straight up to pop the Balloon above.

  xi) Fall and bounce up again, moving left to the next Trampoline, bouncing
      upwards to get the next Balloon.

 xii) Fall down and hold LEFT to quickly break the Trampoline below, falling
      through to get the Balloon.

xiii) Move left to the next Trampoline lane, bouncing up to hit the lower
      Balloon.

 xiv) Do nothing to fall down and bounce up to obtain the higher Balloon.

  xv) Hold LEFT when descending towards the Trampoline below, which will 
      send Mappy careening into the Goro Balloon, which will fly up to hit 
      the final Balloon, finishing off the Bonus Round with a perfect 
      performance!


                           o-----------------o
                           | Mansion Type #3 |
                           o-----------------o

             + L ----------   -----   ----   ----------- L +
             |      C                                R     |
             |   ----------   ------------   -----------   |
             |    S            P                           |
             |   ----------   ----xxx-----   -----------   |
             |                        T               S    |
             |   ----------   ----xxx-----   -----------   |
             |                  R                          |
             |   ----------   ------------   -----------   |
             |     P                   C     T             |
             +xxx----------xxx------------xxx-----------xxx+


Stages.: 8-11
Enemies: 5 Meowkies/1 Goro
Traps..: 4 Microwave Doors/2 Bells

The strategy here is to try and clean out one half of the lower/higher
portions of each floor area (ignoring the bonuses), working across the
screen, using the Bell on one side, followed by moving back across to
repeat the Bell kill.  The Meowkies will now be running at a great speed,
so Mappy needs to get them gathered onto the Trampolines with him, faking 
them out so he has enough time to sprint across the ledges to the safety of
the next Trampoline.  Try to gather the Meowkies and Goro (if possible) onto
the Trampoline where he is dropping the Bell, going right into the attic 
when releasing the Bell (this takes out the cats for a few moments while 
Mappy moves to the next area).  Just stay out of the attic if a lot of 
Meowkies are still out and about when the Bell is dropped, as they are 
likely in position to cut Mappy off, trapping him for an easy kill.


                         o---------------------o
                         | Bonus Round Type #3 |
                         o---------------------o

                  +---|---+---+---+---+---+---+---|---+
                  | B   B | B | B |   | B |   | B   B |
                  |       |       |       | B |       |
                  |       |       | B         |       |
                  |   |   |       |   B       |   |   |
                  |   |   |       |           |   |   |
                  +xxx+   |   |       |   |       +xxx|
                  |   | B |   |       |   |       | B |
                  |       +xxx+   B   +xxx+           |
                  |         B |       | B |           |
                  |           |   |       |   |       |
                  | G         |   |       |   |       |
                  +   |xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx|xxx+

Stage: 11

Follow these steps to achieve a perfect Bonus Round:

   i) Bounce up to hit the first Balloon.

  ii) Hold LEFT to break the Trampoline Mappy lands on, falling through to
      collect the Balloon below.

 iii) Hop to the left and bounce straight up to hit the third Balloon.

  iv) When Mappy touches down again, bounce up to go left to the next 
      Trampoline lane, bouncing straight into the Balloon above.

   v) Land on the Trampoline below and hop up to go left again, bouncing
      straight up to hit the next Balloon.

  vi) When Mappy lands, hold LEFT to break the trampoline and fall into the
      Balloon below.

 vii) Bounce off the Trampoline and go up to move left to get the Balloon 
      hovering over the column.

viii) Land on the Trampoline and launch straight upwards to get the eighth
      Balloon of the Bonus Round.

  ix) After landing on the Trampoline, go left to get the next Balloon.

   x) Bounce straight up to pop the next red Balloon.

  xi) Move left through the opening in the column to use the next Trampoline
      to hit the Balloon above.

 xii) Hold LEFT when landing on the Trampoline below to bust it, falling 
      into the next Balloon.

xiii) Move left to the next Trampoline lane, bouncing up to hit the lower
      Balloon.

 xiv) Do nothing to fall down and bounce up to obtain the higher Balloon.

  xv) Hold LEFT when descending towards the Trampoline below, which will 
      send Mappy careening into the Goro Balloon, which will fly up to hit 
      the final Balloon, finishing off the Bonus Round with a perfect 
      performance!


                           o-----------------o
                           | Mansion Type #4 |
                           o-----------------o

             +   ------------------   ------------------   +
             |      C                                R     |
             |   ------------------   ------------------   |
             |    S            P                           |
             |xxx----   -----------   -----------   ----xxx|
             |                         T              S    |
             |-------   -----------   -----------   -------|
             |                  R                          |
             |   ----xxx-----------   -----------xxx----   |
             |     P                    C      T           |
             +xxx------------------xxx------------------xxx+

Stages.: 12-14
Enemies: 6 Meowkies/1 Goro
Traps..: 4 Microwave Doors/2 Trapdoors

This is by far the most aggravating Mansion design, as the floors are all 
over the place, leaving Mappy in situations where he will have to sprint 
across wide open floor areas, leaving him vulnerable to the Meowkies and 
their now great speed.  Added onto that are the tough to snag Safes, as they
are locate don dead end floors, so only go after them when the coast is 
clear or it is the final Stolen Item left in the level.  Make careful use of
the Microwave Doors, trying to take out enough Meowkies to buy Mappy a few 
seconds where he can be aggressive in going after the Stolen Items.  Try to
save the Trapdoors for when a large group of Meowkies are in hot pursuit of
the police mouse, as sending multiple Meowkies down for a few seconds really
throws off their game plan.  Although the attic is open here, it is not a 
desirable place to go very often, so it is likely best to forget that it 
even exists.  Compounding the issues here is that the Hurry Up times will
arrive with minimal time to run around, so Mappy will have to face-off with 
two extra Meowkies in addition to the Gosenzo (if it gets that far).  Going 
for the bonus multipliers is not a good idea at all, so just grab the Stolen
Items as the opportunities spring up for him to do so.


                         o---------------------o
                         | Bonus Round Type #4 |
                         o---------------------o

                  +---|---+---+---+---+---+---+---|---+
                  | B   B |   | B |   | B |   | B   B |
                  |       | B     |       | B |       |
                  |       |       | B         |       |
                  |   |   |       |   B       |   |   |
                  |   |   |       |           |   |   |
                  +xxx+   |   |       |   |       +xxx|
                  |   | B |   |       |   |       | B |
                  |       +xxx+   B   +xxx+           |
                  |         B |       | B |           |
                  |           |   |       |   |       |
                  | G         |   |       |   |       |
                  +   |xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx+xxx|xxx+

Stage: 15

Follow these steps to achieve a perfect Bonus Round:

   i) Bounce up to hit the first Balloon.

  ii) Hold LEFT to break the Trampoline Mappy lands on, falling through to
      collect the Balloon below.

 iii) Hop to the left and bounce straight up to hit the third Balloon.

  iv) When Mappy touches down again, bounce up to go left to the next 
      Trampoline lane, bouncing straight into the Balloon above.

   v) Land on the Trampoline below and hop up to go left again, bouncing
      straight up to hit the next Balloon.

  vi) When Mappy lands, hold LEFT to break the trampoline and fall into the
      Balloon below.

 vii) Bounce off the Trampoline and go up to move left to get the Balloon 
      hovering over the column.

viii) Land on the Trampoline and launch straight upwards to get the eighth
      Balloon of the Bonus Round.

  ix) After landing on the Trampoline, go left to get the next Balloon.

   x) Bounce straight up to pop the next red Balloon.

  xi) Move left through the opening in the column to use the next Trampoline
      to hit the Balloon above.

 xii) Hold LEFT when landing on the Trampoline below to bust it, falling 
      into the next Balloon.

xiii) Move left to the next Trampoline lane, bouncing up to hit the lower
      Balloon.

 xiv) Do nothing to fall down and bounce up to obtain the higher Balloon.

  xv) Hold LEFT when descending towards the Trampoline below, which will 
      send Mappy careening into the Goro Balloon, which will fly up to hit 
      the final Balloon, finishing off the Bonus Round with a perfect 
      performance!


                           o------------------o
                           | Stage 16 Onwards |
                           o------------------o

The stages will loop after the first 15 stages are completed, following this
pattern:

   i) Mansion Type #1 (3 stages)

  ii) Bonus Type #1

 iii) Mansion Type #2 (3 stages)

  iv) Bonus Type #2

   v) Mansion Type #3 (3 stages)

  vi) Bonus Type #3

 vii) Mansion Type #4 (3 stages)

viii) Bonus Type #4

This means that every 16 stages will be another complete loop, and the 
Meowkies will number 7 for each Mansion, right from the start.  if you 
manage to finish 255 stages, the stage counter will reset back to 1, at 
which Mappy will be back on the initial loop of the game (ie 3 Meowkies,
enemies move at sloth like speeds, Hurry Up takes forever and a day to be
announced).