INTRODUCTION

    Tapper is really one of the classic video games out there.  Although 
it has a PG-rated offshoot(Root Beer Tapper) it is the only game that 
stands as a paean to drug use--contrast to NARC, which was a paean to 
the war on drugs, well, sort of.  You control a bartender who moves 
between four bars and serves beer to customers that run to the edge of 
the bar.  If he serves a beer where there is no customer, you lose a 
life.  If a customer reaches him, you lose a life.  If a customer is not 
knocked back by the beer and returns the empty glass, and it falls, you 
lose a life.  It's a simple concept and addictive and has the neat 
feature that you can't just go blindly firing unlike other games.  The 
challenge on the later levels is to multi-task correctly(hey, wait, 
that's for executives, not bartenders!)  Although the game is slightly 
unfair(see very bottom) the four bar environs and fun bonus rounds help 
make the game quite good.

  CONTROLS AND QUIRKS AND IRKS THEREIN

    If you have an original arcade system, there is a tap you push down 
and up to serve a beer.  You can move up and down in the conventional 
ways although diagonal moving is not permissible.  Also, if you go down 
from the bottom or up from the top, your bartender scrolls around.  This 
"hyperspace" is quite useful at times.

    If you are playing on an emulator or on a port, you will probably 
have to get the timing of pushing the button down and releasing.  You 
can't do it quickly as the beer will only be partially poured, and the 
bartender will have nothing to sling.  If you do it slowly, of course, 
you lose time, so you really need to get the timing down.  I linger as 
fractionally as I consciously can before re-serving.  If it is done 
right you can go pretty quickly and if you linger a bit longer you can 
serve more than four beers in a row to an aisle with four people--
perhaps very handy on later levels.  So quickest is not always 
necessarily best.

    Moving up and down is not immediately responsive so you will have to 
give your bartender some leeway if he wishes to catch a beer at the last 
moment.

    Upon moving up or down you are placed by the keg where you can pour 
and serve a beer.  This is useful because you can move towards the 
customers to pick up a beer and move up to serve another beer quickly.  
Specific examples of where this is nice include when two glasses seem 
determined to crash on the floor at once.  Reach out to get one and hit 
up.
    You also return to the starting point in your aisle if you try to 
pour a beer--the beer goes floating down too.
    You can also pour a beer, move vertically, and then sling it down.  
This is useful if you realize you've made a mistake and there's no-one 
to serve;  you can save time serving some other folks.

    One trick you can use at your peril is the sling-as-they're-about-
to-finish.  Depending on the rate the person starts to drink their beer, 
that's the rate they finish at, so you can sometimes sling them a beer 
right away to get rid of them.  Misfire a bit, though, and you could 
sling a beer nowhere, losing you a bartender.

  POINT SCORING

--50 for each saloon patron you send off his aisle
--75 for each sports bar patron you send off his aisle
--100 for each punk bar patron you send off the aisle
--150 for each alien bar patron you send off the aisle
--100 for each empty mug you pick up
--1000 for completing a level
--3000 for getting the bonus level right

You get extra men at 20000 and then after each additional sum of sixty 
points.

  LEVEL STRUCTURE

    The level locations and design repeat every 13 levels.  In fact, 
from level 14 on, the people repeat;  however, for the first 13, you 
slowly get more people in the bar at one time.  The customers slowly 
approach you faster as you go through the levels.

    Below are the first thirteen levels and the designs.  The 
designation "x----" means the patrons are on the left and "----x" means 
they are on the right.  Of course the number is how many patrons there 
are.

Certain patterns are clear, i.e. there is no formation with three kegs 
on one side.  What you cannot see from the diagram is how the playing 
fields get more trapezoidal as the levels advance;  1-2 has equal sized 
bar aisles, but after 10-13 you see a pronounced centered set of aisles 
with each lower aisle being slightly longer than the upper.

    ****FIRST WAVE****

      ****SALOON LEVELS****

  LEVEL 1

1----
1----
1----
1----

  LEVEL 2

2----
2----
2----
2----

      ****OUTDOOR SPORTS BAR LEVELS****

  LEVEL 3

----2
----3
----3
----3

  LEVEL 4

----2
----3
----3
----4

  LEVEL 5

----3
----3
----4
----4

      ****PUNK BAR LEVELS****

  LEVEL 6

----2
----3
3----
4----

  LEVEL 7

3----
3----
----4
----4

  LEVEL 8

----3
----4
4----
4----

  LEVEL 9

4----
4----
----4
----4

      ****ALIEN BAR LEVELS****

  LEVEL 10

----4
4----
4----
----4

  LEVEL 11

4----
----4
----4
4----

  LEVEL 12

----4
4----
----4
4----

  LEVEL 13

4----
----4
4----
----4

    ****SECOND WAVE****

      ****SALOON LEVELS****

  LEVEL 14

----4
4----
----4
4----

  LEVEL 15

4----
----4
4----
----4

      ****OUTDOOR SPORTS BAR LEVELS****

  LEVEL 16

----4
----4
----4
----4

  LEVEL 17

----4
----4
----4
----4

  LEVEL 18

----4
----4
----4
----4

      ****PUNK BAR LEVELS****

  LEVEL 19

----4
----4
4----
4----

  LEVEL 20

4----
4----
----4
----4

  LEVEL 21

----4
----4
4----
4----

  LEVEL 22

4----
4----
----4
----4

      ****ALIEN BAR LEVELS****

  LEVEL 23

----4
----4
----4
----4

  LEVEL 24

----4
----4
----4
----4

  LEVEL 25

----4
----4
----4
----4

  LEVEL 26

----4
----4
----4
----4

  PEOPLE IN LEVELS

Saloon(1-2):man with mustache and shirt/vest/bandana.  Most wear hats.  
The woman wears a simple shirt.

Sports bar(3-5):baseball(batting helmet, bat,) football(helmet/football) 
and basketball(crewcut/ball) players and female tennis player with 
racket and pony-tail

Punk bar(6-9):man with triangular collar, man with mohawk and vest, man 
with safety pin in head, and woman with triangular floppy hair

Alien bar(10-13):a smart-alecky guy with a t-shirt with a diamond hole 
that I call "Nregix," a koala bear looking alien that walks on the 
bar(this may be the one female,) an alien with a snout, and an alien 
with periscope eyes.  They are colored red, green, purple or blue with 
an occasional orange or grey snout.

  STRATEGIES FOR LEVELS

  General stuff:  people reappear faster and closer to you as the level 
drags on.  They also seem to close in faster.  So if you are able to 
finish quickly, great.  That should be the object later in the levels.  
Also, as you go up in levels, the top levels seem to get smaller in 
width, meaning they are more imperative, although on the bright side 
people that appear there are easily knocked back.  The dancing girls 
also may not be worth it unless there are a LOT of people in play.  
Often it is annoying to tell the people who have turned around from the 
people who haven't--if you sling beers at folks who have, you lose a 
man, of course.

Levels 1 and 2 are pretty easy.  They are good practice for clean beer-
slinging and if you go pretty quickly you shouldn't have to serve any 
extra beers in level 1.  In level 2 you will probably need to serve 
extra beers on the bottom row.  You're more likely to get a tip there, 
though, in case you want to see the saloon girls dance.

Levels 3-5 are a bit tougher.  Fortunately you can finish them off 
quicker.  In general I prefer to sling as many beers as I can, move 
down, etc. until I am back where I started.  Then I need to "multi-task" 
picking up beers and serving them although it is not too bad--nothing's 
too fast.  After slinging beers to the top row, you may want to go up 
and take care of the third and fourth rows again.

Levels 6-9 follow the same sort of regimen although you will really need 
to get the sling-four routine down as most rows will by now have four 
patrons.  Multitasking becomes more important here, and you'll have to 
pick up a lot of beers and immediately serve and move up and down and 
learn how to combine moves.  Only go to the top when there seems to be 
an emergency there and the bottom customers aren't taken care of.  Only 
pick up tips from the top.

Levels 10-13 are much the same as 6-9.  If you don't have precise 
pouring skills nailed down here, you are history as a bartender.  Sorry 
for the cop-out but read the general information below for advice.

  GENERAL STUFF

    General stuff includes--NEVER wait around.  Always look for a beer 
to sling and develop peripheral sight so you can see what is crashing 
where.  On later levels you will need to pay special attention to people 
not knocked back out of the aisle at the top--it means a beer mug will 
be returned quickly.  Often you will want to sling a beer before running 
to get empty mugs, or you may sling a beer, go up to get an empty mug, 
and come back for the rest.  In general, if you play good "defense," 
i.e. make sure mugs don't fall, and spend a lot of time sending mugs 
off, you should be able to get through a level.  Although you are really 
in the best shape if you can get through a level quickly--it's possible 
up to the fourth punk bar.

    Also, you should never run inwards after a mug that isn't halfway to 
your side of the aisle.  There's plenty of time to do another chore and 
come back.  Above all, DON'T PANIC.  There's usually a way to do a ton 
of stuff at once.  When in doubt, defend(i.e. pick up glasses) but don't 
put yourself in doubt if no glasses are close to falling.

  BONUS ROUNDS

    Bonus rounds appear after you have cleared all of one type of bar, 
i.e. saloon, outside sports bar, punk bar, aliens' bar.  This means that 
you get a chance for a bonus at levels 13x+2, 13x+5, 13x+9, and 13x+13, 
x >= 0.

    The closest thing to evil in this game appears to the left.  Your 
bartender, magnified a bit unflatteringly and with his back to the 
action over on the right, smiles obliviously as the masked black man 
shakes up five of the six cans in the center.  He then bangs the table 
and the cans start flipping around.  If you focus on your can you should 
be able to figure out where it winds up, but a moment of inattention 
will mess things up.  The cans get faster until level 9 when you have to 
pay close attention indeed.

    Success gets you 3000 and a "This Bud's For You."  Failure gets your 
bartender a shower of fizz, a defeated look and an impromptu new hair 
style.

  END-OF-LEVEL ANTICS

    Your bartender may do five things on completion of a level.

  1.  throw a glass in the air and backheel and smash it, with a grin 
and a wave.
  2.  throw a glass in the air and backheel it and hurt his foot and 
jump around.
  3.  throw a glass in the air off the top of the screen, where it stuns 
a bird that falls on his head.
  4.  throw a glass in the air and have it land over his head
  5.  throw a glass in the air and have it crash over his head, 
frightening him a bit

    He may also drink two beers instead of one.

  MY STRONG OPINIONS

    Although this game is easy to like it is rather unfair.  Although it 
is probably too tough to get to the fourteenth level without extreme 
practice, once you do, you only get fifty points for serving cowboy 
fellows who are faster than the aliens(150 points.)  The bonus rounds 
also don't increase even though the beers switch around faster.  
Furthermore if you are extremely efficient you don't get anything 
extra(i.e. clearing the board completely with only a few people 
returning--if the game kept track of that and rewarded you, that would 
be cool.)  Some of the controls are a bit unresponsive as well.  This 
puts a small dent in the abundant humor you otherwise see in Tapper.