The first question on your mind is probably not "Why the hell did he write 
this?".  Well let me assure you that I did not write it for my own health.  I 
wrote this littl......long FAQ just for you, the reader.  I remember playing 
the game when I was just a lad.  I even remember the first time I beat it 
too.  I was exstatic!  So, now that a bunch of years have passed, I said "Why 
don't I write a FAQ?".  Well I couldn't find a game to write one on for 
awhile.  I chose this one because I love this game, and because I could not 
find many other FAQs on this game out there, and the one or two that I did 
find were "sub-par".  So I started writing this and I finished it in a matter 
of hours.  If anyone happens to read this FAQ, please E-Mail me or IM me at 
HarvestMoon667@aol.com.  With all that said, let's move on to the characters!

------------------------------------
************************************
************SECTION 2***************
********** OUR HEROES***************
************************************
------------------------------------

************
<LEONARDO>
************

Leonardo is one of the weakest characters in the game.  His swords have a 
medium range but his attack is weak.  I would always start out with him 
because he's not worth much if you lose him.

**********
<RAPHAEL>
**********

Raphael has the worst range of all the turtles.  His weapons however, are 
pretty powerful and almost make up for the loss of range.  For me, he is 
pretty much the least used turtle, as he serves no substantial purpose in the 
game.  

****************
<MICHELANGELO>
****************

Michelangelo has a medium attack range and power.  His speed however, is 
extremely fast, which is his only good quality.

*************
<DONATELLO>
*************

Donatello is by far the best character in the game.  His attack range is the 
highest of all the turtles, and his power is outstanding.  His moves make some 
hard parts of the game seem simple as ever.  Keep him alive at all times.


------------------------------------
************************************
************SECTION 3***************
************CONTROLS****************
************************************
------------------------------------

***********
<A BUTTON>
***********

The "A" Button serves only one purpose in this game, and that is to jump.  The 
time you hold down the button determines the height of the jump made by the 
turtle.

***********
<B BUTTON>
***********

The "B" Button uses the weapon of the turtle, whether it be his give weapon or 
a picked up one.

***************
<START BUTTON>
***************

The "Start" Button pauses the game at any given time.  It brings up the map, 
and is used to toggle in between the turtles.

****************
<SELECT BUTTON>
****************

The "Select" Button is used to toggle between the turtles given weapon, and a 
picked up weapon.

********
<D- PAD>
********

This is used only to move the turtle around the areas.


------------------------------------
************************************
************SECTION 4***************
***GAME PHYSICS AND MECHANICS*******
************************************
------------------------------------

This game has two different ways to move around an area.  Out in the open, a 
player can move in all four directions in a two-dimesional manner.  While out 
in the open, the character looks small, as the player is given an almost 
aerial view of the world.  A player cannot jump while in the open.  While a 
player is in a sewer or building, the style remains two-dimensional, but in a 
different manner.  Outside, the player is given only length and width.  In 
tunnels, the player is given the added feature of height, but still no depth.  
The tunnels and buildings end up as being a side-scrolling portion to the 
game, unlike the outside version of it.  


------------------------------------
************************************
************SECTION 5***************
*********WALKTHROUGH****************
************************************
------------------------------------


STEP 1: BEGINNING

You begin the game next to a sewer opening as Leonardo.  At first glance, it 
would appear we should go through this opening, but do not, as you will lose 
more health tan you should this early in the game.  Instead, go to the left of 
the plate, and walk down, the only way you can go.  Stay to the left of the 
screen, and avoid the purple car thing that comes on the right side.  Once the 
car passes you, get to the bottom and go left, but be fast as the car will 
chase you. Enter the first sewer plate you come to, and immediatly exit.  The 
two purple enemies tht you saw to the right will now be gone along with the 
chasing car.  Continue to the next sewer plate.  Enter this plate, and get 
down the ladder fast as a flying creature will fly at you as soon as you 
enter.  Once down the ladder, kill the flying thing with your sword, and look 
to the right,  Wait for the two creatures to fall off the platform on the 
right, and then jump over to that.  Once at the end of the platform, jump 
down, and fight the purple guy.  He's not that hard.  After he is dead, 
continue to the right, and kill all the creatures you can here.  Jump over the 
three blocks in the middle of the screen and go right.  Continue all the way 
to the right, and a creature will appear at the left and begin running at 
you.  There is a trick to beating him so listen up.  Jump over him as best you 
can, and he should continue right and keep running at the wall.  He will hit 
the wall and just keep running in place.  Keep htting him from the back until 
he is dead.  Once he is dead, the big guy and April at the door will leave 
through the door above.  Jump up onto the platform and enter the door.  

STEP 2: GETTING TO THE DAM

You will now be acoss the river, and you will be able to see the sewer you 
entered before.  There is a building with a redish orange front.  You can 
enter this building if you wish, but there are much enemies in there.  All it 
holds is a pizza, so if your pretty good on health don't even bother going 
in.  Instead, continue up, and be ready to move quickly left, as a purple car 
will be going down at you.  You will see two sewer entrances here.  The one 
that you first see holds really nothing in it and will most likely kill you.  
Enter the one next to the river, on the thin road. Once inside, grab the pizza 
and kill the enemy inthe first area.  It could be a purple guy or a guy made 
of fire.  After he's dead, continue left and kill any flying things in the 
next area.  You cannot continue left until you kill a frog enemy that will 
jump down from the celing.  When he comes, jump up on the platform on the left 
and kneel down at the edge of it.  Use your weapon while hitting the down 
button for an easy kill.  Once he's dead continue left and kill anybody in the 
area, including a purple guy.  After everyone is dead, exit through the ladder 
in the top left.  Once outside, enter the only building in the area.  Inside, 
jump up and kill any flying things you can.  Once most are dead, jump onto the 
coveur belt and then jump over the the next one.  Don't kill the enemy below.  
If you fall down there, simply jump back upto the next conveur belt.  From 
this belt you have to jump to the platform all the way to the right.  Don't 
fall down or this could spell your doom.  Jump over the pit and continue up 
the ladder.  Once up here, ignore the guy with the boomerangs and jump up on 
the boxes.  Kill or ignore the flying things and go to the top of the boxes.  
Jump down and go all the way to the left, where you will see the girl tied 
up.  The bug purple guy will jump down from the celing.  Immediatly jump over 
him and jump back up onto the boxes, and switch to Donatello (the purple 
turtle).  The boss will run at you but run right into the boxes and keep 
running, as with his partner in the earlier sewer.  Here's where my special 
way to beat him comes in!  Knee down with Donatello, and jolt your stick 
weapon downard towards the monster.  You can't reach him right?  Wrong.  Kepp 
jolting the weapon down and eventually you will hit him.  Kepp doing it and 
eventually he will die, and you will have lost no life! :)  You will 
automatically be transported to the next area.

STEP 3: THE DAM BUILDING

You start out outside the dam.  Switch back to Leonardo or another turtle, but 
save Donatello cause he's cool. :)  Enter the Dam Building and and kill the 
flying enemy that comes at you and continue right.  Go up the ladder and kill 
the flying creatures as you move right.  Kill the purple guy you come across 
and move right.  Another purple guy will appear, and kill him as well.  You 
will see a ladder, and yet another purple guy will appear!  Kill him and climb 
up the ladder.  On the next floor, grab the pizza on the platform above.  Give 
it to the turtle with the least amount of health.  Continue right, and kill 
either a purple guy or an orange guy with a chainsaw, depending on which one 
appears.  Once they are all dead, climb up the ladder to the third and final 
floor.  Immediatly kill the purple guy in this area, and continue right.  You 
will encounter one of the chainsaw guys here.  Kill him and move right, 
killing all the flying things you can.  At the ladder you come to, kill the 
purple guy there, but don't climb the ladder just yet.  All the way to the 
right is a full pizza.  Go all the way over to it but don't grab it!  A purple 
guy will appear to the right.  Kill him and THEN grab the pizza for the turtle 
who needs it most.  Climb the ladder you ignored before and continue right 
killing the orange flying UFO things with Leonardo's sword, which works best 
against them.  Go all the way to a jump at the right.  This jump can actually 
be very hard for some players, and they will keep falling down.  If you fall, 
go back right and climb the ladder again.  Go right and try again.  It's all a 
matter of timing.  Once you make the jump, head up the ladder and out of the 
dam building.  Head to the right and kill the two purple enemies that you 
see.  Walk off the edge of the building where the fence is broken.  Now it's 
time for a little swimmng!

STEP 4: THE DAM

NOTE:  If at any time during this swimming part you turtle is in danger or 
dieing, switch turtles, and don't let him die!

In this area, you have 2 minutes and 20 seconds to diffuse 8 bombs.  Swim to 
the right and avoid the electric shock, and  swim up to the bomb. Hit the "B" 
button repeatedly by the bomb to diffuse it.  Keep swimming right, and you 
will come to some seaweed on the floor in a large area.  Don't go in the 
seaweed, for you will perish.  Swim up into the next area and diffuse the bomb 
to your left.  Swim back down into the area below and go left.  Swim through 
the two electric shocks and diffuse the bomb here.  Then continue right.  Swim 
over the patch of seaweed here, and then avoid the turning spinner thing in 
the next area and go up.  Go left and diffuse the bomb in between the deadly 
seaweed.  However, this seaweed will not kill you right away, it only takes 
health.  Go right again and diffuse the bomb to the right of the next screen.  
After thats done, switch to the turtle with the most help and go up.  Manuever 
through the seaweed as best you can and try not to die!  Once there, move 
right and go through 4 electric shocks.  Soon you will come to an 
intersection.  Take the top road and you will get another bomb diffused.  Go 
back and go down and then take the right path where you see a bomb.  Diffuse 
it and continue down to the final part of the dam: The seaweed path!!!!  You 
should only have about 30 - 40 seconds left on the clock, so you can go slow 
and steady here!  Swim to the right, but don't fall into the seaweed below and 
die!  You will eventually come to the final bomb.  Once you diffuse it, you 
will see the text "OK" appear, and you will be transported to the next level.  
You will see a short cinema scene, where you find out Splinter has been taken 
by the footclan.  We'd better go get him back!

STEP 5: RESCUING SPLINTER

We start here in the heart of the city, where Splinter is held captive.  You 
stand right next to your van, so get into it and head over to the first 
building, which is a blue building in the center of you current area.  Hit 
select to get out of your van and walk inside.  Inside, walk to the right 
killing the enemies as best you can.  All the way to the right stands a pizza 
slice, which is probably well needed by now.  Grab it, but do not give it to 
the turtle with the lowest health, because there is a a full pizza on the next 
floor.  Head left and get onto the upper path, and go over to the ladder at 
the far left.  On the next floor, we need to get the missles you see in the 
top left.  Walk right, and you will come to a large gap.  Try your best to 
make it over, because you do NOT want to fall down.  Once over, grab the whole 
pizza I told you about before and give it to the weakest person.  Then head to 
the upper path and head left.  You will reach a small gap, but do not jump 
over it.  Just walk over it and you will not fall.  Grab the missles, and fall 
down the gap you jumped before to get to the first floor.  Get your ass out of 
that building!  Once back in the van, you should have ten missles.  These will 
be fired by pressing "B".  However, only fire them when I tell you to, cause 
you have enough for the area, and you dont want to go get more from another 
building, do you?  Of course not, so lets head over and get some scrolls!  In 
the car, head left on the street until you can't go left anymore.  Head down, 
and then right, destroying the barricade with a missles.  Go all the way to 
the right to the edge of the river.  Head down, and break another barricade.  
Head left, and you should see a tall blue building with an open door.  Go 
inside here, and prepare for a fight!  Head up the first ladder here, and, if 
there is a footclan enemy, ignore him and head up the second ladder.  On the 
next floor, head left and up another ladder.  On the other side of the wall 
you see the scrolls, which is what we are here to get.  Go right and up a 
ladder to the next floor.  Once here, make a jump up to the tall platform on 
the left.  Then head left till you see a ladder.  An enemy will appear.  Kill 
him, and then head down the ladder.  In here, give the scrolls to the least 
used turtles, after killing any flying enemies that attack.  Head down the 
ladder, and then head down again into the sewers.  Grab the ropes on the right 
wall, and head left.  I'm gonna be honest with you people: You don't need to 
make it through the sewer.  In fact it's better to just fall into the water.  
However, you will need some SERIOUS sewer skills to get to the boss after 
this, so maybe you should practice here.  Whatever option you choose, once you 
are back outside the building, get into your van once more.  NOTE:  If you 
have lost any turtle thus far in the game, head straight down from the 
building.  Head left and destroy the barricade, and then go up.  Get out of 
your van and cross the bridge.  In the buildings over here you will find the 
lost turtle.  If you lost more than one, you will find the first one lost.  
Anyway, now that that's said.  From the building with the scrolls, head left, 
and then down.  Destroy the barricade and cross the small bridge.  Head right 
(the only way you can go), and destroy another barricade near a pinkish 
building.  From here, head down, and then right.  Pass the long blue building, 
and pass the two barricades next to each other.  Continue right, and then go 
up.  Destroy the barricade across the long bridge, and destroy one on another 
bridge while you continue upward.  Make a right, and then down across another 
bridge.  Head left, and destroy one last barricade.  Follow the path and you 
will come to a blue building near the center of the map.  Enter inside, and 
get ready for the final building.  Once inside, head left, killing the 
enemies.  Jump up, and then go right, until you see a ladder on the floor.  Go 
down that and into the sewer.  Here is one of the hardest parts of the game.  
It is a LONG sewer and you cant fall down once!  Jump across the first gap and 
kill the enemies coming at you quickly.  The next two gaps are pretty much 
enemyless and simple.  After that, you will see two single blocks.  Jump onto 
the second one and kill any flying enemy that may appear.  Hop the next gap 
and get onto a slightly longer platform.  Hop the next gap but have your 
weapon ready to kill any flying enemy that may appear while your in the air.  
Don't let it knock you into the water!  Two more single blocks appear, with a 
half pizza over the second one.  Grab that, and wait for the enemy on the next 
platform the walk off.  Jump the next gap, and kill the flying enemy 
overhead.  Jump the next gap, watching for a low flying enemy.  Jump onto the 
second single block, and wait for the enemy above to fall down.  Once he's 
dead, jump up onto the tall platform.  Then jump down, and kill the flying 
enemy over the next platform.  Jump over to the final platform, kill the 
enemy, and head up the ladder, grabing the whole pizza of course.  You emerge 
from sewer, and end up dead center of the map.  Walk into the building in 
front of you, and its time to get Spliter back!  Hop the tall platform, and 
jump down, killing the enemies as you head right.  Jump up to te platform with 
the ladder and head up.  Jump down and go back down another ladder.  Walk left 
and go back up another ladder once again.  Head left and hop the tall 
platform.  Head up the ladder to the roof.  Let the enemy walk off the 
building to your right and die.  Then jump onto that building from the 
ground.  Do NOT attempt to do it from the building to your left, or you WILL 
die.  Then jump down to the right across a gap, and you will find Splinter 
tied up.  Get out the turtle with the scrolls, and the boss will come come 
down.  Now, if you followed my instruction and got the scrolls, this is the 
easiest boss battle of your life. Whe he comes down just let the scrolls 
loose.  After a few hits he will change forms.  Keep whipping the scrolls and 
soon he's dead.  Aren't you glad you got those scrolls!  Splinter is free, and 
you are transported to the next area.  

STEP 6: FINDING THE BLIMP

The objective here is to find the blimp to take you to the footclan's lair.  
This area is all a series of tunnels that you must pass through, and sometimes 
you must choose between tunnels.  However, each tunnel has a number inside of 
it, so it's easy for me to explain which one to go into!  That's right, thank 
those damn programmers!  From now on, I will saw "Enter tunnel 3" or something 
like that.  Just look at the numbers in the tunnels, to make sure you're in 
the right spot.  So enter building 1 and head right.  Grab the whole pizza in 
the upper left, and head right, and up the ladder.  In the upper right here 
are some ropes.  If you still have them from the last area, don't bother.  If 
you don't have them like you should, grab them here and head left.  Go up the 
ladder here and head right.  You will eventually be outside on a roof.  Keep 
walking right, and your ropes will automatically be used.  After you cross all 
three buildings via the ropes, head right.  Grab the half pizza on the upper 
platform, and then head down that ladder below.  Head left here, and go down 
the next ladder.  Jump down, and head right, and exit out the door marked 1.  
Head left and up, and enter tunnel 2.  You are introduced to new laser 
shooting enemies here that are shapped like crosses.  One hit will kill them, 
so they arent a big problem.  Head all the way to the right and down the 
ladder.  Head right again, kill the enemy that appears, and head up the 
ladder.  Head all the way to the right, and then up the ladder and out of the 
tunnel.  Go up and left, and go into tunnel 3 (the upper tunnel in the area).  
Here we see spikes which can hurt you BAD.  Stay on the conveur belts as best 
you can, and exit the ladder on the right.  Head all the way to the left in 
this area, and enter tunnel 6.  Head right, staying on the conveur belts and 
exit through the ladder in the far right.  Head up, and then left into tunnel 
8.  In here, don't kill anybody below the conveur belts, and head up the 
ladder on the right.  Head to tunnel 9 in the upper left of this area.  Kill 
the enemy here and head up the ladder on the right.  Go straight up int this 
area until you see a tunnel.  Then go right, until you come to tunnel 12.  Go 
down it.  This tunnel is very hard.  Kill enemies as best you can, and DO NOT 
fall off the belts.  Head right, and up onto the high belts.  Then jump down 
over the platform with spikes to the next belt.  Grab the whole pizza here, 
kill the two cross enemies on the ladder. and head up.  NOTE: Sometimes there 
is soo much going on that the pizza image does not display.  Trust me, it's 
there.  Head down here to tunnel 15. Kill the two cross enemies and head right 
on the belts.  Grab the whole pizza under one of the belts, and conitnue 
right.  All the way to the right, you see a light brown substance on the 
floor.  DO NOT, I reapeat, DO NOT fall into here because you will DIE!!!!  Hop 
this stuff and head up the ladder.  Tunnel 16 is a dead end with some pizza 
and a Mr. Invicibility, which appears about as often in this game as the ghost 
of Duke Ellington.  If you are good, ignore it, and head to tunnel 17.  Head 
all the way to the right and drop down the hole on the bottom of the tunnel.  
Grab the pizza slice down here, and prepare for a hard challange.  When you 
drop down the next hole, spikes will start to close in on you.  If they hit 
you, you will die.  Go to the left first, drop down, and the continue downward 
in the only way possible.  Ignore any items in here.  Drop down again, going 
to the right first, and then follow the only path downward.  DO NOT attempt 
for the pizza, as you cannot get it.  Drop down again and head right and 
through the door into the boss area.  This boss is easy with Don, so you'd 
better have saved him.  Just stand between the monsters legs with Don, and 
jolt your weapon upward constantly.  When enemies fall out of his mouth, you 
will kill them, and then you will also hit the light bulb thing in its mouth, 
which kills him.  Just continue with this and he will die easily!  YAY!  Once 
he's dead, the four of you will leave in the blimp, for the footclan's base.

STEP 7: INFULTRATING THE BASE

You start in the darkness of the footcaln base.  Scouts are constantly flying 
overhead with lights.  If they see you, enemies will come at you so don't get 
seen.  Look at the map.  You will see 5 white spaces, white indicate 
tunnels/buildings.  The boss is in either of three tunnels.  The one is the 
north-east, the one in the south-west, or the south-east.  The building in the 
middle is the lumber yard, where some pizzas lie.  Also, any captured buddies 
will be in here as well.  Pay no attention the building in the upper right, as 
it is a hassle.  The boss is always in a different spot, even if you use a 
continue, and the only way to find out which tunnel the boss is in is trial 
and error.  Below is a help guide for each tunnel.  If the boss is in a tunnel 
before the third, skip down to the boss battle help guide.  At the end of each 
tunnel is a door with a Footclan symbol on it.  Only one has the boss, and the 
others are just empty rooms.  

TUNNEL 1: North-East Tunnel

Break the block below the first platform here, and head down.  Break another 
block and head down again.  Head down once more, and go right.  You will soon 
see the footclan door explained above.  

TUNNEL 2: South-West Tunnel

From the entrance, head right, and then down the ladder all the way at the 
end.  Head right again, breaking the blocks and head down once more.  Head 
right and down again.  Head right yet again, and break the blocks.  You will 
come to a footclan door explained above.  

TUNNEL 3: South-East Tunnel

Head all the way to the right of the first area and go down the ladder at the 
end.  Go down once more.  Break the blocks to the right and you will come to 
the footclan door explained above.

BOSS BATTLE

This boss is pretty hard to beat.  Basically it has six weapons:  Two machine 
gun turrets, its eye, a hatch for soldiers to attack you from, and two 
electric prong thingies.  First things first.  Destroy the two gun turrents, 
so that you won't be bothered by them any more.  Next, take out the hatch, so 
those damn footsoilders won't kick you or shoot you.  Next, you should take 
out the two prong things.  Use Donatello for this, as he can hit them from a 
distance.  Once they are both dead, its time to go for the eye itself.  Jump 
up, but make them medium height jumps, because touching the eye itself will 
cause major damage.  Once they eye is dead, it will explode.  However, make 
sure you have more than a life bar and a half with your current character, as 
the steps on the side can hurt you, and it will piss you off a lot to get 
killed here.

STEP 8: DEFEAT SHREDDER

You are now inside Shredder's Fortress, and its now or never.  If you've lost 
both continues, you shouldn't be feeling happy right now.  You will notice 
there is no map in here, and no radar as well.  Yipee!  Keep heading up floors 
here, killing all the enemies as you go.  You will eventually come across a 
large Ostrich enemy.  Use Don to kill him.  Let it jump over you and then hit 
him with the stick.  Ignore the other Ostrich that comes and enter the door at 
the top.  You will see a vertical shaft here, which is literally the point of 
no return.  Go down two floors, and left.  If you go right, there is a pizza, 
but its not worth the amount of enemies in the hallway.  Jump the hole to the 
left, and go down the ladder and get a whole pizza!  YAY!  Go down at the 
fork, and then head left, making incredible jumps.  You will soon see a small 
hole in the floor.  Go down that, and head left, trying your best to avoid the 
spikes and the ostriches chasing you.  Once at the end, you can head down the 
ladder to free a captured buddy.  Once that's over with, continue left and 
enter through a door gaurded by a laser soldier.  Go left, and down into a 
hole.  On the right of the next screen, you will find the final Mr. 
Invincibility.  Jump down from here to the last screen in the white area.  Go 
through the door into the blue area.  This is one of the hardest areas here.  
Tyr to duck out of sight of the laser soldiers.  You will soon reach a tiny 
passage.  If a soldier should happen to follow you here, you MUST kill him 
because you can't move anywhere else.  After this hell hole, you will be 
upstairs and you have to fight another laser soldier.  Use Don for this, and 
kill him as best you can.  If he hovers right over you, kneel, and swing DOWN 
with Don to hurt him.  After he's done, enter the door and get ready for 
SHREDDER!!!!!  Shredder stands on a central platfrom, and you stand on the 
right one.  Take out Don, who you best have still alive.  Hit Shredder as soon 
as possible and he'll fall back onto the left edge of the platfrom.  Go to the 
left edge of your platform, and hit Shredder in mid-air when he jumps at you.  
If he touches you, it's pretty much over.  If you happen to not have Don with 
you at the moment, you best have scrolls, as that is the only other choice.  
Use the scrolls the same way explained above with Don, and he'll be dead 
fast.  DO NOT get hit by Shredders gun or you will die as well.  After he is 
defeated, you have beaten the game.


CONGRATULATIONS!!!!!



----------------------------------------------------------------
************************************
************SECTION 6***************
*************ITEMS******************
***********************************
---------------------------------------------------------------

************
<NINJA STAR>
************

These are single ninja stars that can be thrown at an enemy.  Their attack is 
not that powerful.

*******************
<TRIPLE NINJA STAR>
*******************

These are like the ninja stars, only three are thrown at a time, giving the 
player a better chance of hitting more than one enemy at a time.

*************
<BOOMERANG>
*************
After these are thrown, they will come back to the turtle who threw them.  If 
caught by the turtle, the number of boomerangs will not deplete.  Also, one 
can switch boomerangs by throwing a boomerang and switching turtles.  The new 
turtle will then end up with boomerangs when he catches the one thrown.

**********
<MISSLES>
**********

These only appear in the area where you must find Splinter.  Once you get 
them, you can only shoot them while in the van.  These will break the road 
barricades.

*********
<SCROLLS>
*********

These are a very powerful weapon in the game.  These however, cannot be picked 
up from an enemy.  They must be found.

******************
<MR. INVINCIBILITY>
******************

This item only occurs three times throughout the game.  You spin around and 
around with your weapon almost like a fan, and kill any enemy with one hit.

********
<ROPES>
********

These are only used once in the game, when you have to go across three roof 
tops.  These are otherwise useless.